I'm just writing that suit.

You can go, your mic's just not on.

Is my mic on?

Not yet.

It's on in my pocket.

Oh, it's on in my pocket.

Yeah, I know. It's not on on this way.

So anyway, we're gonna dance and sing anyway.

So let's wake ourselves up with our welcome song.

Where are my dancers?

Thank you.

He's got the whole world in his hands.

He's got you and me, brother, in his hands.

And he

He's got the whole world in his hands.

Hey, Ben.

Thank you, everybody.

So, good morning.

How good to see everyone.

It is so sunny out.

It's so beautiful.

Just so beautiful out.

You may be seated.

Lovely to see the sun.

So, hope everybody had a great week.

Edwards, home for just like two days.

Quick trip home, but always glad when he comes down.

I was just telling somebody else that he got off the train like 4 o'clock yesterday.

We picked him up, and all these girls in denim skirts and cowboy boots got off the train

because they were all coming to the Luke Combs concert at Notre Dame.

Edward said they even had a double-decker train, which they normally don't on that run,

to accommodate all of them.

But an awful lot of girls in cowboy boots, an awful lot got off that train.

Join me this morning in our call to worship.

We are branches rooted in the vine of Christ.

The branches that remain in the vine bear much fruit.

If we abide in Christ, then Christ's words will abide in us.

We gather for worship now to the glory of the one God.

amen let's sing our children up here

out there a lilac bush and it's starting to bloom there's like flowers on it and

I just think it's so pretty so I went under the bush and I got I found this

I'm gonna plant it so that I can have a lilac bush what do you think

it's a branch off off the bush so I'll plant it and then I'll have lilacs right

No, it's not really a branch anymore, it's a stick, isn't it?

Just like Ozzie said.

Okay, well, you know what, that started to occur to me,

so I went back and I got this one.

And it has leaves on it, so I'm gonna plant this one,

and then I'll have lilacs.

No?

Probably not?

Eh, you know, there are some plants that you're right,

do get roots, like in water, you can root them in water.

I don't think lilac bushes are one of them.

So I don't think this is any good.

Why isn't this any good to grow lilacs?

What's wrong with it?

I don't have seeds to plant,

but why isn't this particular piece any good?

Where would this need to be for it to grow?

It would need to be on the bush, right?

If you go out to the bush, you'll see lots of branches like this

that don't look great, but they have leaves on the end.

And if it was connected, it would grow.

And then it would have the beautiful purple lilacs growing on the end.

So our verse today, Jesus says,

he is the vine and we are the branches.

So I was like, why is Jesus saying he's a vine and that we're branches?

Because we don't want to be branches like this one.

Let's become a stick.

He's talking about us being branches if we're connected to his vine.

Because that's how we stay healthy.

So just like the flowers on a flower plant and the leaves on a tree

and all the beautiful things God made, if their piece is connected,

it can grow fruit or flowers or leaves or whatever it's supposed to be.

be and be beautiful and jesus is telling us the same thing if we stay connected to jesus if we're

praying and reading our bible and making sure jesus is a part of our everyday life then we

will stay healthy and have a fruit as jesus calls it when we meet people you you missed you dumped

that it went all over i heard it so kids let's pray heavenly father

Help us to stay connected to the vine.

Help us to stay connected to Jesus,

to put him as a big part of our life,

that we pray to him and we think of him

and we try to do what he says

so that we can be a healthy branch with much fruit.

Amen.

Thank you, everyone.

Let's all, while they're picking up their mess,

let's all greet each other this morning.

May the peace of Christ be with you always.

Our opening hymn is Christ is Alive.

Christ is alive, let Christians see

The cross stands empty to the sky

And sweet and cold with praises ring

Love drowned in death shall never die

Christ is alive, no longer bound to distant tears in Palestine, but saving me here and now, and touching every place and time.

Christ is alive and comes to bring good news to this and every age,

till earth and sky and ocean bring with joy, with justice, love and praise.

Amen.

Oh, I'm sorry.

The Lord be with you.

Let us pray.

O God of infinite love, prepare our hearts and minds to hear your sacred word.

May we receive it as the precious gift of your own gracious spirit,

and may it feed our longing to be obedient to your perfect will.

Amen.

Our first reading is taken from the book of Isaiah.

Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard.

My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill.

He dug it and cleared it of stones and planted it with choice vines.

He built a watchtower in the midst of it and hewed out a wine vat in it.

He expected it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.

And now, inhabitants of Jerusalem and people of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard.

What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it?

When I expected it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes?

And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard.

I will remove my hedge, and it shall be devoured.

I will break down its walls, and it shall be trampled down.

I will make it a waste, it shall not be pruned or hoed,

and it shall be overgrown with briars and thorns.

I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel,

and the people of Judah, and his pleasant planting he expected justice,

but saw bloodshed, righteousness, but heard a cry.

This is the word of the Lord.

Amen.

Amen.

Amen.

So the bulletin is saying we're only reading verses 1 through 14,

which you're going to have to turn the page.

But we are responding with the first response, which is,

O taste and see that the Lord is good,

happy are those who take refuge in God.

O taste and see that the Lord is good,

happy are those who take refuge in God.

I will bless the Lord at all times.

God's praise shall continually be in my mouth.

Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt God's name together.

Look to God and be radiant, so your faces shall never be ashamed.

The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear God and deliver them.

O taste and see that the Lord is good.

Happy are those who take refuge in God.

O taste and see that the Lord is good.

Happy are those who take refuge in God.

O fear the Lord, you his holy ones, for those who fear God have no want.

The young lions suffer wanton hunger, but those who seek the Lord have no good thing.

Come, O little children, listen to me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord.

Which of you desires life and covets many days to enjoy good?

Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.

Depart from evil and do good.

See peace and pursue it.

Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good.

Happy are those who take refuge in God.

A reading from Luke.

Now as they went on their way, he entered a certain village.

where a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home.

She had a sister named Mary who sat at the Lord's feet

and listened to what he was saying.

But Martha was distracted by her many tasks,

so she came to him and asked,

Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me

to do all the work by myself?

Tell her then to help me.

But the Lord answered her,

Martha, Martha, you are worried and distracted by many things.

there is need of only one thing

Mary has chosen the better part

which will not be taken away from her

this is the word of the Lord

Thank you.

Our gospel today is from John chapter 15.

I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine grower.

He removes every branch in me that bears no fruit.

Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes to make it bear more fruit.

You have already been cleansed by the word that I have spoken to you.

Abide in me as I abide in you.

Just as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine,

neither can you unless you abide in me.

I am the vine, you are the branches.

Those who abide in me and I am man who bear much fruit,

because apart from me you can do nothing.

Whoever does not abide in me is thrown away like a branch and withers.

Such branches are gathered and thrown into the fire and burned.

If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask for whatever you wish and it will be done for you.

My Father is glorified by this that you share much fruit and become my disciples.

This is the Gospel of our Lord.

Praise to you, Lord Jesus Christ.

Amen.

So today we wrap up our nine-week series on what's in a name.

And we're looking at the I Am Statements in the Gospel of John.

There are seven of them, and each one tells us a little more about Jesus.

In each one, Jesus identifies himself as God.

And today is the last one.

Jesus and the disciples have left the upper room,

and they're walking through Jerusalem toward the garden of Gethsemane.

On the way, they must have passed the temple complex,

where Jesus probably looked over at the large, sculpted vine on one of the outer walls.

Because he points toward the temple and he says,

I am the true vine.

This is a reference from one of the most familiar passages in the Hebrew Scriptures.

You heard this passage earlier, the Isaiah passage that Bernadine read.

It's called the Song of the Vineyard.

Let's sing for my beloved, my love song concerning his vineyard.

My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill.

Throughout the Old Testament, Israel is portrayed as the vineyard of God.

It was a familiar picture, but now Jesus changes it up a little bit.

Now he says that this new Israel is a fulfillment of God's promise, of that promise,

and that one who is connected to the vine through Jesus is doing the right thing.

But some Jewish people just hearing this already might have started to have a problem

because the person that they connected to God with before this was Abraham.

And so Jesus is kind of taking Abraham's place.

And Abraham was a very honored forefather.

So last week I talked a bit about what it means to abide in them.

And today we're going to talk about abide even a little more.

One of the great challenges to spiritual life today

is the irony of time-conscious humans

trying to relate to a timeless God.

We live under the clock, the tyranny of the clock.

God inhabits the peace of eternity.

Psalm 46 says,

They that wait upon the Lord.

But we're terrible at waiting,

mainly because waiting takes so much time.

I hate waiting.

For most of us, the greatest danger in our spiritual life

is not that we will renounce our faith.

It's that we will become so distracted and rushed and preoccupied

that we'll settle for a watered-down, mediocre version of a spiritual life.

A guy named John Ortberg wrote a book, The Life You've Always Wanted,

and he calls this modern life the disease of hurry sickness.

We'll buy anything that promises to help us in a hurry.

How can we speed up?

How can we take less time?

We have examples everywhere.

A shampoo and conditioner and run,

so we don't have to rinse our hair a second time.

Domino's Pizza.

They don't sell pizza.

They sell delivery in 30 minutes or less.

McDonald's.

We don't buy it because it's good or even because it's cheap.

We buy it because it's fast.

But even that wasn't fast enough.

I mean, we used to have to park and open our door and then walk across the parking lot

and open their door and go in and order.

Now we don't even get out of the car.

We sit down and drive through and pick it up and eat it on the way down the road.

There are even drive-through churches where people don't have to get out of the car.

And that's a good thing if you wouldn't come otherwise.

So, you know, good on someone thinking of how to reach some people, let them stay in the car.

That's a good first step.

But for us, if we started doing that, that's a step backwards.

Hurry sickness is a continuous struggle to accomplish or achieve more and more things

or participate in more and more events in less and less time,

frequently in the face of opposition, real or imagined, from another person.

So there are symptoms of hurry sickness.

Constantly speeding up every daily activity.

Reading, talking, eating.

calculating which car is going to pull away from the light faster.

Counting at the people in the grocery line,

picking the one that's the shortest,

but then still counting every other line as they move faster.

Does that depress you for the rest of the day?

Another symptom, multitasking.

We used to call this doing more than one thing at the same time.

But that takes too long to say.

So it's multitasking.

We evidently do a lot of it in the car, no matter what it is.

Hurry sick people drive and eat and shave and put on makeup and drink coffee,

listen to the radio, talk on the phone, make hand gestures all at the same time.

I have personally passed someone on 23 who was reading a newspaper spread out over their steering wheel.

Next symptom, superficiality.

Depth, like in anything, in any relationship, conversation, it takes time.

It can only be, real depth can only be achieved slowly.

But we have traded wisdom for information and depth for breadth.

How many of us could spit out a ton of sound bites from this week's news?

But very little detail often.

I was telling my friend Mary about the Walmart kidnapping

where the crazy woman grabbed the kid and took him out of the store

and was wielding a knife and everything.

And she said, oh, where'd that happen?

I don't know.

Was it around here?

I don't know.

Why'd she pick that kid?

Did she tell him?

I don't know.

And I didn't.

I looked it up.

It's like Idaho or somewhere.

But another symptom, an ability to mess up real love.

Love and hurry are fundamentally incompatible.

Love takes time.

And time is the one thing hurried people don't have.

That's why the hurry is an enemy of spiritual love.

It gets in the way of your love of God,

even when you don't think of it,

because you don't think of it because you're in such a hurry.

It's impossible to spend the day being really aware

of God's love for you and his creation

and your blessings and the people around you

if you are always in a hurry.

But there's a cure, and Jesus told us in our passage today, and that is abiding in Jesus.

Earlier today, you heard the scripture from Luke 10, where we meet Mary and Martha for the first time.

Mary sat at the Lord's feet and listened to what he's saying, and Martha is busy and getting angrier and angrier at her sister.

Jesus commends Mary in the story, as opposed to her sister Martha.

Martha was in the kitchen making a centerpiece,

probably coloring a swan out of a watermelon,

and she was printing napkins with potato stamps

so it would color from the berries outside.

Are you a Martha?

Doesn't Mary just tick you off in this story?

There's work to be done.

Somebody has to do the work.

We have a guest.

Think about, are you the Martha?

or are you the Mary? But this is what Jesus was talking about, the importance of abiding in him,

being with him, staying connected to him. He uses the image of a grapevine with branches growing

out of it. He is the vine, we are the branches. And Jesus associates this practice of abiding

with fruitfulness, just like a plant or a tree or a bush. It bears fruit. And that's the word we hear

over and over in scripture of what we are to be doing. We are to bear fruit. The one who abides

in me and I in them, this is the one who will bear much fruit. So notice the difference in

posture between these two attitudes of Martha and Mary. Martha is busy and hurried, a frenzy of

activity. But this is a posture that we're familiar with. Our culture rewards busy and hurry and

accomplishing so many things. But Mary is sitting at Jesus's feet. This is the posture of a disciple.

Mary is learning what work Jesus would have her do.

So how do we do it?

Abide in Jesus.

How do we sit at his feet?

Well, I'm going to give you four practices,

but I know you've heard them from my mouth before

and probably from mouths before me.

Scripture is there for us to read.

Maybe try a one-year Bible if you don't read regularly

that gives you kind of smaller passages to get through.

Learn the difference between reading for information and reading for formation.

Informational reading covers as much as possible.

Just keep reading, turn the page, get all you can.

Formational reading covers what is needed and focuses on the depth, not the quantity.

Sometimes a scripture reading might be one word,

but that word, if you let it sink in,

if you really think about it,

that word can have you pondering something all day.

Informational reading is looking just to solve today's problems,

but formational reading seeks to enter

into the mystery of God's world and God's purpose.

Number two, after scripture is worship.

So glad you're all here.

You can check that one off the list.

develop a habit of gathering regularly.

People prepared to encounter the living God

come here

on Sunday mornings prepared to encounter the word of God.

We're here like

spiritual kindergartners. I read that phrase somewhere. We're sitting at the

feet of Jesus. He is present with us by his spirit.

We need to learn to attend to him like Barry did.

I mean, how many people find some point in the service

where your mind is wandering to,

did I turn off the stove?

Do I have to stop at the store?

So-and-so's coming to visit.

I don't want to do any of that,

and I want to go home and take a nap.

Besides worship, fellowship is so important.

Wherever two or three are gathered in his name, he really is there.

He's present in the faces and the lives of the people we gather with.

We encounter Christ in each other.

Because the church is the body of Christ,

each gathering of believers offers his presence.

it doesn't have to just be Sunday morning.

Bible studies, events, meals.

Fellowship beyond Sundays is important.

And the last one is prayer.

Prayer is one of those things, at times in my life,

I have just been such a good prayer warrior.

And there are other times that days have gone by,

and I haven't prayed in days, because I'm busy.

My mind is busy. I'm hurrying.

Maybe it would help to have a fixed time,

mornings before you get out of bed,

nighttime before you go to bed.

But Paul tells us in Thessalonians, pray continually.

Prayers don't need to be long or formal,

just sincere and open.

Pray in the car.

I pray when an ambulance goes by.

Pray just short. It doesn't have to be anything fancy. People get caught up because they hear

longer wordy prayers on the radio or in church. That's just one minute part of prayer.

Brother Lawrence is a good example of prayer, and he even had a book that he wrote called

Practicing the Presence of God. Brother Lawrence is the patron saint of all the Marthas in the world.

who just don't have the temperament to sit there at the feet when there's so much to do.

He lived for 15 years in a monastery, but struggled with the discipline of structured

prayer times. His book, he writes about his struggles and how his mind would go off on this.

And he's in a monastery. He's a monk. He's supposed to be holy, right? It should come easy for him,

but it doesn't work that way. He says in the book, for a long time I felt like a failure

at prayer, but then I realized that I would always be a failure at prayer, and I felt much better.

Don't you like him already? It's never going to, prayer is, our prayer life is never going to be

perfect to us. It's never going to be. However much we pray, you're going to come to church,

are going to hear you should pray more.

Just pray.

We're not counting it up.

We're not timing the minutes.

Just pray.

Brother Lawrence was in charge of a busy kitchen

in the monastery.

And this became,

he terms it as his laboratory

for learning to live continuously in God's presence.

Ironic that it's a kitchen

where Martha's problem started in our other teaching.

But his teaching on prayer sums up with three words, three samples. God is closer to us than

we think. Just a prayer at different times in the day. God, I'm so glad you're here with me.

God, I know you're here with me in the car. I know you're here with me in the kitchen.

Don't let me burn the toast again. Number two, no one sees anything in our prayers,

most of them, unless you're praying out loud here.

So nothing is easier than just to repeat some words,

this little act of worship.

It may feel quite not ring true

because you have a post-it note on your dash that says,

pray that God's with you and you love him.

But it will become a habit.

It will feel more natural,

and no one is hearing it but you and God.

And the third thing that Brother Lawrence recommends,

we can make our heart into a prayer room

where we can retire from time to time

and relax and stop and slow down

and converse with God gently and humbly.

Then he said,

I do this simply by keeping my attention on God and by being generally lovingly aware of him.

And so we come to the end of this journey, and I cannot imagine a better place to end than with

this exhortation to abide well, which of course kind of all the I am's lead up to. We are invited

to abide forever with the great I am.

The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords,

the Alpha, the Omega, the Prince of Peace,

the Messiah, our Emmanuel,

God with us forever.

Just one long continuation of being with Jesus

and in his presence over and over and over again.

Because he is there even when we don't acknowledge it.

Amen?

In this same attitude of prayer, the Lord be with you.

Your response to let us pray to the Lord is your response, Lord, hear our prayer.

In the peace of the risen Christ, let us pray to the Lord.

That our risen Savior may grant us victory over all our enemies, seen and unseen.

Let us pray to the Lord.

That he may crush beneath our feet the Prince of Darkness and his power.

That he may raise us up and set us with himself in heaven.

Let us pray to the Lord.

That he may fill us with joy of his holy and life-giving resurrection.

Let us pray to the Lord.

That he may provide for those who lack food, work, and shelter through us,

that by his love wars and famine may cease through all the earth.

Let us pray to the Lord.

That isolated and persecuted churches find fresh strength in the Paschal mystery,

and that all those who have gone before us in the faith of Christ may find refreshment, light, and peace.

Let us pray to the Lord.

For our Bishop Tracy, our Superintendent Marty, and our Pastor Sandy,

and for all elected officials and all the leaders of the nations

that they may govern in peace, with justice and mercy,

let us pray to the Lord.

For our sisters and brothers who are ill or in need of prayer,

for Don, for Ken and Doris,

for Betty and Len and her sister Rill,

for Peggy, for Joyce, for Conrad, for Dana,

for Dwayne, for Wayne, for Kevin, for Marty,

for Leah, for Donna, for Daniel, for Bruce,

for Shelby, for Tina, for Kim.

In peace, let us pray to the Lord.

And we're asking special prayers for Daryl and Michael's nephew, Ryan,

who is back in ICU.

Special prayers for Ryan.

In peace, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, hear our prayer.

For people in the military, for Missy L, Caden, and Xavier.

In peace, let us pray to the Lord.

Lord, hear our prayer.

I invite your petitions.

for the people during this war.

In peace, let us pray to the Lord.

Thanksgiving for us collecting all the soap that we need.

Let us give thanks to the Lord.

Thanks be to God.

continuing prayers for Hudson.

They're having difficulty.

Everywhere they can call in the second opinion,

they have like three months out waiting period.

But we're just patiently waiting.

Let us pray to our Lord.

Lord, hear our prayer.

Father God, in the name of Jesus, we choose to abide, not visit, not perform, not strive, but to remain in you.

We renounce independence from your presence.

Help us to disconnect from fear and burnout and the hustle of life.

Help us to reject the lie that fruit comes from force and heavy working and pushing on.

Apart from you, we can do nothing.

But in you, we bear much fruit.

Prune what doesn't belong.

Cut off what drains life.

expose every attachment that competes with you

for our time and our thoughts

let us submit to your process without resisting

let your life flow through our minds

our work, our body, our relationships

and let obedience to you be our root system

let intimacy with you be our power source

Let fruit be the evidence.

Let us pray together.

Repeat these short lines after me.

Precious Lord, I abide.

I receive.

I bear fruit in season.

In Jesus' name, amen.

Amen.

Now we're going to collect our offering and play our song.

Just relax and prepare yourself for communion.

Amen.

Taste and see, taste and see

The goodness of the Lord

Oh, taste and see, taste and see the goodness of the Lord, of the Lord.

Taste and see, taste and see the goodness of the Lord.

Oh, taste and see, taste and see the goodness of the Lord, of the Lord.

Praise God from whom all blessings flow

Praise Him all creatures here below

Praise Him above ye heavenly hosts

Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost

Amen

Heavenly Father, we ask you to bless these gifts that we give to you,

that we give to our church, our place of worship,

that we give to you with a grateful and joyous heart.

We thank you for all the blessings you have given us,

for the times when there's been plenty, for the times when there's been less,

but you have always been with us.

Help us to use our gifts, our time, our talent, our money

to further your kingdom, to bear fruit while abiding in Christ.

Amen.

Amen.

the Lord be with you.

Lift up your hearts.

We lift them up.

Oh, that's your line.

Sorry.

Let us give thanks to the Lord, our God.

It is right and a good and joyful thing always and everywhere to give thanks to you,

Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth.

You saved your people through your son, Jesus, who is both Lord and Messiah,

and all who repent in his name are forgiven.

And so with your people on earth and all the company of heaven,

we praise your name and join their unending hymn.

Amen.

God of our land,

Heavenly and earth are full of your glory, O'sanna, in your Christ.

Blessed is the kingdom of the kingdom, our Lord.

O'sanna, in your kingdom of Christ.

Holy are you and blessed is your Son, Jesus Christ.

He was destined for the foundation of the world.

but he revealed him now for our sake.

By the baptism of his suffering, death, and resurrection,

he gave birth to your church,

delivered us to slavery, to sin, and death,

and made with us a new covenant by water and spirit.

On the night he gave himself up for us,

he took the bread, he gave thanks to you,

and gave it to his disciples, saying,

take and eat, this is my body, the broken for you.

And when the supper was over, he took the cup and gave thanks to you and gave it to his disciples, saying, drink from this, all of you.

This is my blood of the covenant poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins.

Do this, as all commands you drink, in remembrance of me.

And so in remembrance of your mighty acts in Jesus Christ,

we offer ourselves in praise and thanksgiving,

as a holy and living sacrifice,

in union with Christ's offering for us,

as we proclaim the ministry of faith.

Christ is high, Christ is risen,

Christ is your holy name.

Pour out your Holy Spirit of those of us gathered here and on these gifts of bread and juice.

Make them be for us the body and blood of Christ,

that we may be the world, the body of Christ, redeemed by his blood, by your Spirit.

Make us one with Christ, one with each other, and one in ministry to the whole world

until Christ comes again and we all meet together at the heavenly banquet.

Through your Son, Jesus Christ, with the Holy Spirit, in your Holy Church,

honor and glory is yours

Almighty God, now

and forever.

And now with the confidence of the

children of God, we are bold to sing

our prayer to you.

Our Father, in heaven,

hallowed be your name.

Your kingdom come, your kingdom,

our goodness in heaven.

Give us today our daily bread,

Forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us.

Save us from the time of trial, and deliver us from evil.

All our kingdom, the power, the glory are yours, now and forever.

Amen.

Because there is one loaf, we who are many are one body,

for we all partake of the one loaf.

The bread which we break is a sharing in the body of Christ.

The cup over which we give thanks is a sharing in the blood of Christ.

Thanks be to God.

All are welcome at the Lord's table.

You're invited to come forth to kneel at the railing to receive the elements.

If you prefer, the prepackaged are in the back,

and we will invite you to partake after we're done at the railing.

Come forth and abide in Christ as you receive this gift from him.

Amen.

What wondrous love is this, O my soul, O my soul?

What wondrous love is this, O my soul?

What wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of bliss

To bear the dreadful curse for my soul, for my soul

To bear the dreadful curse for my soul

Christ laid aside His crown for my soul, for my soul.

Christ laid aside His crown for my soul.

To God and to the Lamb I will sing, I will sing.

To God and to the Lamb I will sing.

To God and to the Lamb who is the great I Am.

And while millions join the theme, I will sing.

I will sing.

One million join the pain

I will sing

For those with a free package, the body and blood of Christ were shed for you.

Thanks be to God.

eternal God we give you thanks for this holy mystery in which you have given

yourself to us may our hearts burn within as we encounter the risen Christ grant

that we may go into the world in the strength of your spirit to give

ourselves for others in the name of Jesus Christ, our most precious Lord. Amen.

Denise, you want to start? Dean, time. I can go first.

So, in the Narthex, there's a box back there and it is full of puzzle books like this with crosswords and all those things. My mom gave me one for every occasion. They'd be stuck in with my birthday, if I'm going on a trip, starting when I was like 14.

And then if she bought one for me, she'd buy one for herself.

So then when she passed, like I got hers.

So literally, like we had like 50 puzzle books, 80% of them not touched.

Okay, so help yourself.

If you like puzzle books, I am sharing the love.

There are a ton of them.

And like I said, many of them have nothing, not a pencil mark in them.

So and if they do, they have like two puzzles done.

So there were just too many.

So I kept some, but I'm sharing the love.

So please help yourself pick up one of those on your way out.

Thank you so much for all the soap that you all collected.

We are way over our limit, which is going to be very helpful

for making the health kits.

I especially want to thank Damien.

Yeah!

Whoo!

I don't want to embarrass Damien,

but I'm just very proud of all that he did on his own.

He even donated his birthday money to buy soap for us.

And donated the very first bar of soap we had.

Yes, he did. Handed it in.

So I think we need to give him a round of applause.

Yay!

There is a sign-up in the back.

It is next Sunday.

We have to be at Grace by 1230.

First we're going to assemble the kits, and then we are going to have a lunch.

Grace is providing the lunch.

They want us to bring a dessert.

I will bring the dessert, so all you have to do is come and go.

I cannot stay the whole time, unfortunately, because there's a Challenger thing I have to go to,

Challenger Little League, but I am going to go, and I want you all to come if you can.

Wayne, doesn't it take like a few minutes to put all those things together?

Yeah, so it's a good time.

Also, if anybody has a non-usable printer, I need that.

So if you have one, if I could have it.

So thank you.

She's trading it in to get a discount on a new printer.

So really not usable, just sitting on the shelf somewhere.

Anything else?

So I am, and I are gone next week.

At the end of this week, we'll be on a cruise in the Caribbean.

So sorry, I won't be here.

Pastor Larry will be here in my place,

and I should be back the next one, tanned and relaxed.

I feel like I should repeat for people who weren't here

that we announced that I am retiring last week.

It is with a heavy, heavy, heavy heart.

Hardest thing I've ever had to do.

But Ed's been retired for two years, and we've made plans to travel and move somewhere warmer.

And with his sickness and my eye problem, I just don't want to put it off and regret it later.

So as much as it pains me and breaks my heart, because I love being here,

that I will be here through the end of June. And then you will have a new pastor, which the SPRC's

probably met or will meet soon anyway. And then you'll get the news once they've met of what's

going on. And, you know, God brought me to you. I know he'll bring the next one. And, you know,

we're not dying, so you can send me a card. We'll still be alive. So just want you to know that

you'll get more information. I'm sure there'll be a party because that's what Emmanuel does.

No more announcements. And let's sing our final song, Thine Be the Glory.

Thine be the glory, risen conquering Son

Endless is the victory thou, O dead, has won

Angels in bright raiment rolled the stone away

Kept their folded grave clothes where thy body lay

Thine be the glory, risen conquering Son

Endless is the victory

Thou, O death, is won

Lord Jesus needs us

Risen from the dew

Lovingly He greets us, scatters feared and blue

Let the church with gladness, hymns of triumph sing

For our Lord now liveth, death hath lost its sting

Thine be the glory, risen conquering Son

Endless is the victory thou would design

No more without thee, glorious Prince of life

Life is not without thee

Aid us in our strife

Make us more than conquerors

Through thy deathless love

Bring us safe through Jordan

To thy home above

Thine be the glory

Risen conquering Son

And this is the victory

Thou, O death, has won

Thou, O death, has won

Go forth this week and abide in Christ

wherever you are, in the car, in the shower, in your house, at work.

Christ is with you.

Abide in Christ.

Amen.

Amen.

I'm a man,

